hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I chat with Sheamus
Donahue the chief growth officer at
matako matako was founded in 2014 and
offers custodial trading tokenization
and other blockchain Based Services for
financial and non-financial institutions
the team is comprised of software
Security Finance and cryptography
Specialists with years of experience in
the banking technology and I.T sectors
in this conversation Sheamus and I talk
about his experience in the banking
sector and building trading platforms
Lessons Learned while working for an
exchange in 2017 and 18 during the Ico
token craze how well-defined regulations
positively impact crypto companies how
banks are looking into blockchain-based
Solutions the Outlook institutions are
developing for crypto's future helmetaco
Services its institutional clients and
much more just a reminder nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens that nothing should
be taken as Financial advice and that
the host or guests May hold tokens
discussed in any given episode with that
said I really enjoyed chatting with
Sheamus and I hope you enjoy the
conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we're talking with
Sheamus Donahue the chief growth officer
at matako how you doing today Seamus I'm
great thanks great to be here thanks for
having me on absolutely thanks for
coming on something that I'm really
excited to just delve into today is your
area of expertise is slightly different
from a lot of folks who've come onto the
Pod you collaborate and work with a lot
of the institutional side of things in
the space so really excited to dig into
that but before we kind of go into that
conversation I just want to hear a
little bit about your really interesting
background
so before you enter the blockchain and
crypto space you had a resume filled
with various roles at different banks
like JPMorgan and Barclays and things
like that so what was kind of your
general experience in the banking sector
before you went into the metals and
eventually the crypto space sure so I
joined out of University I joined
banking it was really ambition wasn't
that I was excited by Finance but I I
had traveled to Japan when I was 18 I
said how can I get to Japan I could
either be an English teacher or get into
Finance because a new Banks let you move
around globally and Japan was a popular
place so I basically started my career
Jayden Morgan I was always on the
trading side of the business 1981 was
pretty early in the derivative space so
it was really a lot of it was an
exciting space to be because we were
Building Products building Market maker
businesses JP was a real innovator in
that space and throughout my career in
banking was really about uh you know it
was pretty entrepreneurial environment
where effectively you could build
product they would give you Capital risk
Capital to build a business around that
and I did that at JP Morgan around new
interest rate the rivers products that
are now kind of the benchmarks in the
market to administrate space point to
Deutsche Bank from there to continue
that and build that in Asia build
interest rate products in in India where
we launched some of the first uh
derivatives contracts in the rate space
same thing in Japan turkey Thailand not
turkey I spent 20 years in Asia well
that was at uh Deutsche Bank Barclays
Merrill Lynch stint in London and
there's between so between Asia I was 10
years in Tokyo 10 years in Singapore and
banking was fantastic wasn't until 2008
when we had the Global Credit crisis
where banking kind of changed right we
went from basically a growth industry to
basically a compliance industry probably
good from a global you know individual
perspective but as an employee the thing
shifted wasn't quite as fun so I left
banking in 2011 got into the startup
space I was always uh I got very
involved at Barclays around the
intersection of of electronic markets
and uh and finance or let's say
technology and finance when we elect we
basically put a lot of the distribution
of our products onto an electronic
platform and we transformed Barclays
which at the time was I'd say is kind of
a Dusty third-tier Bank into probably
the leading Bank in in most of the
wholesale um interbank markets and pro
and you know derivative space and rate
space so that for me was very sort of a
educational sort of transformational
power of technology so I try to do the
same thing for four years in the
commodity space when I watched as you
mentioned Metals I've launched a
commodity trading platform wholesale
commodity training platform which was
once you focused on institutions like
Banks I worked with companies like JB
Morgan DBS but building markets is tough
I spent four years doing that with an
electronic platform really gave
visibility to how physical Commodities
are training and I think that was an
education that uh it may make sense to
have visibility but it doesn't
necessarily what all the participants
want visibility also draws down profit
margins so there's a certain value in
opacity as far as some of the
participants are concerned so I stopped
that at four years and the next step was
really into the the crypto space I had
observed you know ethereum was kicking
off and a number of friends that were
getting into the space this is like
2017. so I was aware of the space but it
wasn't until I uh was invited for drinks
in a bar in Singapore where I met a
founder of a Swiss crypto exchange and
spent a couple hours talking to me and
it was all about you know this new
peer-to-peer technology would
revolutionize how we trade how we
exchange value we would no longer have
intermediaries exchanges Banks clear now
as all this was going to be gone
um we would have box that would provide
infinite liquidity I thought it was
completely out of his mind and to the
next I actually joined his company to
run run the Asia part of his uh his
exchange business so that was 2017. it
was an exciting space as a company we
tokenized our equity in 2016 so we
really kind of very forward-looking the
company Grew From when I joined about 40
people to 250 people this was 27 2018 so
there was we had the right up 2018 hit
it was a little more difficult there was
the the one of the big crypto winners I
continue to try to build I was trying to
build out the corporate side of that
business meeting we're trying to get
Banks to get involved in this space they
all thought is a bit crazy at the time
it was a little too early to talk to
banks in 2017 about this but it didn't
it did actually get me diving into the
whole crypto space and as a retail
exchange you know eventually asked how
we did custody and we had a couple
trusted employees in in the Euro
Mountains in Russia managing the private
keys for the exchange and that that was
the start of maybe there's other maybe
there's a potential opportunity in the
custody space and that eventually led me
to matako yeah you've got a lot of great
talking points in there something that
really stuck out was Innovation and
working at Banks those are two things
you don't typically hear in the same
sentence no I think a lot of people are
perplexed when I when I said it was fun
working their bank but it was a growth
industry I think any industry was
growing and basically the uh where you
can actually run with opportunity can be
very exciting and Banks were that for a
long time it's not the case now it's a
different environment for banks it's all
about regulation and Regulation and
compliance succession not a bad thing
but you know it's it's not the same
environment yeah a lot of people have a
bad taste in their mouth from the
financial crisis I graduated from
college during that time and trying to
get a job afterwards was a Fool's
Mission something else you mentioned is
when you were running the Commodities
exchange you mentioned that opacity is
kind of King and that a lot of people
didn't like the fact that there was not
opacity so how does that kind of jive
with these open transparent blockchain
ledgers that there's a lot of trading
going on with things like defy well I
think this is really where you know once
you start looking and Diving down the
proverbial Rabbit Hole this is what can
get you so excited about this face I
mean I think the you know we potentially
have I mean if you're a little bit
cynical about the way how finances work
we typically have monopolistic
intermediaries between you know
intermediating I mean financial
institutions play a very significant
role in terms of intermediating trust
but it comes at a cost and I think that
was the the real proposition when you
looked at uh crypto was you really could
reinvent this space you really could
have potentially algorithms that run you
know 24 7 365 and zero marginal cost
that can trust us then instantaneously
to change value I mean this is
Revolution missionary I mean it's clear
that this is really an opportunity that
you can bring fairness and you know
inclusivity to Market space you could
everybody could have a bank account and
everybody could trade with each other I
mean that's as crazy as I talked in the
bar that I had with uh The Exchange CEO
did back in 2017. he was right maybe
that's not necessarily the future that
involves but that is clearly the
opportunity that's there so you're
saying the kind of like 24 7 protocols
and algorithms running Bots and all this
these kind of Pros outweigh the cons of
everybody being able to see the other
side of the trade well that's a
different question I think you know as
individuals even as companies you
certainly still need privacy right I
mean it doesn't necessarily mean that
there isn't a way to understand what's
happened on chain but I think
transactional privacy is going to be an
important aspect to really get traction
with this uh this technology and markets
cool I want to talk about a little bit
later about sort of things that might
excite you like zero knowledge proofs or
anything like that moving forward but
before we do that you are based out of
Switzerland and and I'm really proud to
be in Colorado because this is one of
the states that's very forward thinking
when it comes to cryptocurrency and
blockchain legislation so what's kind of
like the vibe or the buzz like around
the crypto and blockchain space in
Switzerland but I think Switzerland is
probably one of the places particularly
when you think of it from a regulated
Finance place that has been really very
forward-looking they've got a head of
government they've got a regulator here
which is uh finma that really saw an
opportunity to find themselves in the
Crypt in the blockchain and digital
asset space and they had regulation very
early on that really provided let's say
a clear taxonomy and Regulatory
framework where institutions could build
and that basically sparked a lot of the
startup scene here it's pretty vibrant I
think it's been a kind of let's say a
model for other markets like Singapore
fault very quickly in that we've seen
Regulators in Germany kind of very much
following switch steps and when you
define a clear regulatory framework and
and potentially licensed regime if
that's the model they follow I think
you've seen that there's a lot of of
innovation that follows so it's been a
great space but I think the banking
Community as a whole in Switzerland is a
bit slower moving so I think a lot of
the opportunities when in the startup
space have been outside of Switzerland
because the banks you know the banks
here are famous for being conservative
and Technology hasn't necessarily been
the USP The Big Industry in in
Switzerland has been private wealth
private banking much more of a secrecy
industry as opposed to a Technology
Innovation industry but I think even
they are starting to embrace the
opportunity here and started to build in
the space yeah because you have uh Zug
which is what is it the the crypto
Valley yeah correct zig's one of the
cantons just besides Zurich where very
much the at a camp Tunnel level there's
been a lot of innovation and you've had
some of the uh very uh let's say
pioneering companies like Bitcoin Swiss
set up there it's a low tax region as
well so that's also helped to contribute
to the build out of the space and so
when you're looking at uh zogin and
Zurich just kind of rough estimates
during the past year the markets haven't
been super favorable to people who have
entered but if you look at like the
long-term Trend you see the amount of
crypto companies kind of going up and to
the right what's sort of the trend that
you're seeing in Zurich and Zug with
crypto companies that are locating there
are new companies formulating at the
same rate as they were two to three
years ago was it just like a slow kind
of matriculation what's your perspective
on that well maybe let's just step back
for saying say that you know as matako
itself is not actually based in that
region we're actually the two big
regions Switzerland are the the Swiss
Roman which is the French region and
then the German speaking region so
Zurich and Zug far in the
german-speaking region so as a company
matako we we are based in lausanne which
is just uh down the lake from Geneva so
we're a little bit diff outside of the
specific crypto Valley region so I can't
comment specifically on the developments
there because we're a little bit removed
and we're much more active
internationally than we are they're kind
of the local local scene let's say what
I would say anecdotally though is I
think like anywhere I think if you're of
pure crypto native business you know
since the peak in 2021 it's been tough
you know volumes are down I think
there's been a lot more uh apprehension
about digitally native cryptocurrencies
um there's been concerns with all the
follow-up we've had from three AC and
FTX so I think there's no question that
what the the impact and the cuts we've
seen elsewhere are impacting businesses
here particularly those that are focused
on Purely the let's say the the crypto
native side of the business yeah and
thanks for clarifying that I I was just
asking uh for Sheamus's perspective not
for matakos so no that's fine I
appreciate that so uh after you left the
banking sector you started a company
that was focused on uh precious metals
physical custody solutions that also
parlayed into another company that you
started that was focused more on like
open architecture technology for this
space as well so I'm curious if your
ability to kind of like grok and
understand the things that like
cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin and
ethereum offered to self-custody sort of
self-sovereignty would you have had the
same opinion hearing about these from
that see the CEO of the The Exchange in
2017 would you have had the same opinion
if you stayed in the banking sector and
didn't go into the precious metal space
well I haven't spent as long as it did
in the banking space you know I talked
earlier about opacity I mean I you know
I sat very close to Structured Products
businesses which are effectively
combinations of different financial
instruments create a certain outcome
that investors looking for and one of
the key USPS of those products is that
the client doesn't really understand
what they're buying basically right so
they can build a lot of margin and the
bank then Hedges it and walks in you
know three four five percent so to me
I'm having spent so much time in that
business it was very clear that uh Banks
do perform a role but I think up into
2008 there was kind of an excess there
was too much financialization I mean
obviously we swing the pendulum swings
both ways but I mean the industry was
over leveraged it was all about uh you
know maximizing profit it was all about
maximizing the profits for employees in
particular and actually shareholders
which is why the banks went through a
very tough time so you know I think it
was pretty clear that uh banks at the
time weren't necessarily serving the
individual investor it was really about
maximizing the return they could get
from the individual investor
so I think early on in 2000 I started
investing a thing and I you could see
how leveraged the industry was going you
could see how it leveraged corporates
were getting the same space as were
countries and I started investing in
gold in in you know to early 2000s
basically around when Bank of England
started selling out the last last
Holdings of their gold so at that kind
of stage it was a kind of education
about what is the Hedge against the
financial industry so my mindset was
already around investing in real assets
that basically had some sort of tangible
value that wasn't completely
financialized now gold is obviously
financialized as a big paper Market but
it's still a reserve asset it still has
I was based in Asia for a long time and
unlike the west where gold seems to be
you buy a low carat jewelry for your
your wife or girlfriend every once in a
while in Asia jewelry is like an
investment it's 24 carats you buy it by
the gram it's got a market price gold is
at the Forefront of most people's minds
so it's I was in an environment where
gold was basically an alternative
investment it was very much out the
Hedge outside the financial industry so
to your point when I when I got to the
point where I left banking because
things weren't moving anymore was all
about compliance I was it was a zero
rate environment it wasn't very exciting
there was much volatility and think
about to do next I could gravitated
towards an industry which I thought was
already one from an asset class
perspective I wanted to be exposed to
which was precious photos and then I had
my background of Technology basically
saw there was also a problem to
potentially solved there so when
eventually I did get exposed to things
like Bitcoin it wasn't a very big leap
to think about physical gold to digital
gold if you want to call it better yeah
and I remember in the early 2000s like
if you were hearing about gold investing
here in the states it was from a gold
bug who was on a public radio show who
kind of sounded like they had a tinfoil
hat on so was that kind of the similar
vibe in your neck of the woods what was
that sort of contrarian take on
investing into gold in the early 2000s
when uh stocks only go up well of course
why would you invest in gold I mean if
you're based in the U.S nobody had an
allocation over one percent basically it
was as you say it was those that were a
little bit uh prepper or tin asked but
if you look at Asia basically it was a
natural thing to invest in because most
cases or like let's not just say Asia
but developing markets often you have a
currency that is not very uh it's
certainly not a store of wealth not
necessarily stable either it goes
through routine crisis as I moved at age
in 1998 that was the Asia crisis where
you had things like the Thai baht the
Indonesian rupee even um the South
Korean one that had fallen out that
crashed so I think there was an
understanding in most of those markets
that gold played a long-term role in
terms of being an alternative currency
an alternative store of wealth so you
can look at India where basically still
it's the it's the main way that the
woman in in the society may you know has
has wealth that's allocated to her
where's all the other assets are belong
to the man the women accumulate gold
jewelry and a dowry and they have doubts
to their their daughters and that's all
20 you know it's a high carat gold
basically it's basically a report
effectively their Investment Portfolio
long-term value Investment Portfolio so
it's very much part of the mainstream it
wasn't a fringe at all so I think that's
where my education was a little bit
different from that perspective
interesting and you mentioned earlier
that while you were transitioning into
the crypto and blockchain space that you
worked at an exchange in 2017 so what
was it like to be at an exchange this is
your first time entering a brand new
industry and it's a parabolic market
because of the Ico boom what were some
of the lessons that you took away from
that both positive and negative well I
worked for Swiss cryptic the Swiss
exchange it was called Lykke which was
uh I think it was one of the early early
retail exchanges I mean I think um as
you said it was a very exciting time
because assets were going parabolic icos
were something new that were obviously
every day there was new icos new record
raises
you know it was the first time I've
really been in one was an experimental
asset class with also an organization
that had a say an experimental sort of
organizational structure the founder
really took this idea of uh new you know
future economy into the way you also
operated his business he had a vision
basically that as a corporate uh as a
CEO his job was to basically plant seeds
and and provide resources and nurture
and everything could grow on its own so
it's kind of this very decentralized
management framework which was also
super exciting you had a lot of autonomy
you could do what you want you build
businesses and it's fine when resources
are infinite the thing you did learn
about that was also when resource
Infinity when resources are no longer
infinite and you're hitting you know
you're hit with a hard reality that you
need to fund a business you need to have
an eventual profitability that you
probably shouldn't experiment with asset
class business model at the same time
you should probably have some things
that are tried and true and uh and
iterates slowly rather than everything
it was my first uh let's say pure
startup space and effectively we were
all startups in a startup so I think it
definitely was an education about how to
do things prudently in an environment
that can move very rapidly and that is
as you remark there can be a lot of
excess you get caught up in that same
thing we've seen the last few years I
mean 2021 again funding companies were
raising it 200 times that annual
recurring revenues with no profitability
in sight and now those those levels have
crashed you know 90 probably right so
things can return when you least expect
it yeah absolutely and being able to
plan for a rainy day is it's really hard
when you're seeing nothing but Stars the
moon and rainbows absolutely I mean it's
hard to execute in historic space we
were we were when I joined I think we
had 14 000 retail clients we got that up
to about 40 000 and it seemed like a
reasonable success but coinbase emerged
around the same time and they were
adding that same number per day so there
was a lot of competition in our space as
well and I think one of the key things
is you need to be differentiated you
need to have a some USPS that stand out
and I think that was another thing about
being very being
being having kind of no USPS in a
crowded space other than just having an
exciting Vision wasn't enough you need
to really have boats around your
business that was another key learning
is look is still up and running or is
everyone on to greener pastures well I
think most people aren't A Greener
pastors it was a great uh there's a lot
of good alumni in the market let's put
it that way awesome and so you
ultimately landed at matako and you've
had various roles there it seems like
you've made your way up the ranks so
what have your various different
experiences at the different branches
for matako been like as you've moved up
well maybe we'll just describe what the
company does to put some context to that
so my experience was I was always an
Institutional market and I was a work
for banks so a lot of businesses selling
to other Banks selling to you know large
financial institutions hedge funds Etc
when I joined matako matako was about 17
people they were focused on the vision
of the company so Asian County the
founder had a vision that the pure let's
say pure the same vision I described the
pure crypto promise was basically be
your own bank everybody could be on a
bank everything would be tokenized and
everything would be peer-to-peer I think
he had a vision that uh that's possible
there's probably one vision of the
future but also had a view that
basically this technology would be
embraced by the financial sector they
would want to get involved in the asset
classes they also would view that they
could basically potentially reinvent
their own Technology stock to embrace
tokenization across all asset classes
they are the the main custodian for
every other asset class right now so it
could have a profound impact on their
infrastructure and nobody was building
building for that use case everyone was
really exciting the banks are dead
disrupt the banks so the core
proposition was really to build a
product for banks for financial
institutions to enable them to build a
digital asset offering starting with
cryptocurrencies but you know more
importantly build that eventually
migrate the entire Bank into this new
technology stack which was about public
Ledger it's basically right when I
joined there were about 17 people in the
company everybody was a let's say a Dev
so is Adrian and I basically trying to
sell the products at his early stage of
the product to the banking community so
it's really about commercializing the
product working on product Market fit we
had some early some great early clients
like DBS and Stan Charter Bank and who
helped us in some instances co-build the
product in terms of you know build
specific capabilities around things like
cold storage we worked with Stan Charter
Bank around uh a full what we call our
orchestration layer I mean you can think
about policies in the how you manage
Keys everyone has a policy there you can
have a multi-cig you could have NPC
typically these are about some sort of
distributor approval about you know like
signing Ledger basically do you think of
how banks operate they don't just have a
two of three or a three or five process
they have a much more complex internal
sort of uh policy framework for how you
know how users are set up how users get
permissions you know how transactions
are built how transactions approved how
transaction everything has a process and
you want to ensure an organization that
it's not just one person that holds all
the all the power there's no super admin
there's no single approval for anything
so really our core proposition which one
of the core propositions we have now in
the institutional space is someone we've
built with Stan Charter Bank was really
a full operating let's say a full
operating layer for everything you do on
and off chain this policy driven that's
insecure that it would you know longer
term will enable a bank to put all the
processes into our platform and be
agnostic to Ledger agnostic to how the
Best in Class tokenization engine
agnostic to trading you know centralized
decentralized or any web 3 application
and be able to integrate into their
their existing infrastructure and
eventually transition to be their main
infrastructure so that was the
proposition and uh you know having had
some great early Partners to build that
we built the pipeline I guess and uh
that was when I was affected Business
Development rent sales my background
wasn't running sales and neither was
Adrians and once we built the pipeline
we realized we had to uh then build the
sales team so I we hired a sales team I
moved into Partners which is really
about you know matako now we're about
100 people growing rapidly despite the
the crypto winner but I think even 100
people we you know we're facing clients
like uh stanchard or BBVA or Citibank we
work with they're huge they're huge
Mammoth organizations so we need ideally
for scale we work with Partners you know
the likes of the mckinsey's the
accentures the NYS the deloitte's and I
spent a lot of time building up
capabilities for those type of Partners
and you know that was a journey I mean
again it was felt like it was back in
2018 two years ago trying to pitch them
and why they should partner with us in
theory they liked the idea but they
don't build into their clients move but
once we started announcing clients like
Citibank for example everybody wants to
be your partner because everybody wants
to work with Citibank so I think we
built up a great portfolio now and we've
got a pipeline of Partners covering all
aspects of you know building Target
operating models implementation
integration we train them and now
focused very much on you know building
our marketing building a strategy for
the firm now as well so it's been really
touched everything commercial around the
go to market on our product yeah so um
that sense of like Innovation you were
feeling when you were at the banks do
you kind of now being on the outside
you're not inside a bank but are you
feeling that sort of innovation coming
back uh like seeping into their minds
yeah yeah I mean that's a good question
I think when when I was in the bank and
it was it was a little bit Reckless
Innovation let's say basically because
you had unlimited Capital unlimited risk
so that's why the 2008 was was
correcting that excess but it obviously
went the other way but I think from an
innovation perspective particularly from
a Technology Innovation space I think
the banks are very forward-looking now
and I think they're exciting places to
be because they have budget for
transformation in the space I think it's
been the big change during covet most
budgets of the banks got cut and I think
we had some concerns that maybe we bet
in the wrong horse maybe because the
tornadoes were all taking off and the
banks they slashed everything in early
station code but it wasn't until 2021
when the start of 2021 where scripts
have started taking off the game that
Banks some banks started announcing
plans some banks work in herds right
they don't want to be first but they
don't want to be last so once some of
the major leaders in the space started
announcing projects then very quickly
the rest felt they had to catch up so I
think we have a situation now where the
banks do understand that the underlying
technology is not going away I think
that was some debate about that in 2018
2019 2020 and they're running on a
legacy stack Legacy technology stack
that's 20 to 40 years old on Cobalt on
Mainframe nobody's alive still that
knows how it works it just their Works
don't touch it but they need to think
about the next generational Tech stack
to migrate to and uh yeah I think those
jobs are people that we work with I
think have one they're extremely
talented I mean they're really thinking
very far down the road and I think when
you knows often talks that banks will
never touch D5 they'll never you know
crypto is a no-go banks are
experimenting the space they may not be
going straight into completely open defy
but they look at the proposition of D5
and they can see how that can eventually
reinvent their technology stack I mean
the banks one of the bank's main role is
intermediation as we talked earlier the
algorithm to do that 24 7 and 365. it's
their marginal cost they're going to be
interested there's some things there's
still hiccups like you know digital
identity you want to tie that on you
need a settlement Lake do a lot of
Trades you don't have a digital currency
whatever you want to call that stable
coins that are starting they're
obviously emerging asset class that's
growing rapidly but um you know I think
the banks the banking space they have a
budget and I think those that are in
this space are excited and they are
innovating I think we've got some real
leadership in that space in the banking
space and particularly when you look at
jurisdictions where the regulation is uh
is well defined Germany all the banks
are building there's some great plans
there to go to market tokenize things
like Securities we're seeing the same
thing in Europe we've got we work with
companies like sock gen Forge which is
built a capital markets business on
chain on public chain which is I think
again the recently done some fundraises
with uh maker down the bank's pushing
envelopes into pushing the envelope in
the space cool I want to talk more about
matako and the products and offerings
but I want to kind of circumvent that
and just kind of talk about some
high-level things so hopefully by the
time we get to the services and the
product offerings it's easy to just kind
of like Plug and Play the example you
just used was that maker Dao and that
banks are starting to look on chain what
are the chains they're looking at is it
the chains that have been around for a
long time are we talking like basically
just ethereum when it comes to
implementing Define smart contract
protocols that's a great question I
think we've seen Evolution I mean I
think um two years ago it was a bit of
everything everything seemed new and I
don't think there was any real
concentration where they're looking or a
lot of projects looking at maker that uh
at polka dots at uh other new chains
stellar and things I would say now it's
basically evm compatible chains you know
if ethereum is all there one looking at
the things I call polygon I think the
evm in the banking Space is really
dominating right now gotcha and so you
brought this up Also earlier talking
about various different regulations but
being here in the states it's such a
fight are we going to have good
regulation are we gonna have bad
regulation and there are other countries
that just seem to be doing it right so
what do you think are the countries that
have sort of the best guidelines for
regulations and what does that look like
I touched on it earlier I think places
like Switzerland Finland have done a
great job of defining what is and what
isn't a security you know having a clear
taxonomy around different
classifications of what of assets and
the licensing regime associated with
them Germany now has a very clear regime
around licensing custodians electronic
registrar for Securities
um so you can actually issue a totally
digital native security now which
obviously is a revolutionary in the
financial space that's right for what's
pretty much a labor intensive
paper-based process places like
Singapore I think are have really taken
it to the next level where they have
things like project guardian which is
experimenting with things like Ave and
real world assets like jgbs to see an
exchange of value versus a settlement
coin they've been very forward-looking
things like project Orchid which is like
purpose-based money effectively having
money this for specific purposes like
you know vouchers for for food or
vouchers you know effectively very
targeted you know use cases around
around money in which thunderline money
is still a tokenized Singapore dollar
but for specific purposes
so I think I think it's really about
Clarity if then if we want to summarize
it in one word it's tough in the U.S I
mean you've got basically one you have
lack of clarity around who regulates the
space there's multiple Regulators that
have been whether it's SEC
um or the fed the FDIC or CC there was
some form of unity earlier this year
when you had occfdic and the fed you
know jointly put out a letter raising
caution about whether it's considered
Prudential banking to be involved with
crypto I think this space there's too
much happening in the space for the
banks not to Lobby to get their way
eventually I think the opportunity for
the you know financial sector let's not
just think about Bitcoin but just the
technology for the banks to embrace this
technology it's too big an opportunity
and I think eventually The Regulators
will see the light and and come to some
much more business friendly approach
that really allows Innovation to happen
I think that that will happen when we
talk to banks in the U.S it could be one
or two years before you get that sort of
clarity so I think when instead of
saying they're going public blockchains
they're building intern Journal we're
looking at disruption internally first
in a framework that convention you go
into you know public blockchain later on
you know building things like Quorum and
things like that which are eventually
forward compatible with public chains
yeah you're painting a picture of Hope
which is it's refreshing because
oftentimes you know when I'm sitting
alone with my thoughts I kind of Wonder
are we shooting ourselves in the foot
like what if the US gets this wrong this
could be akin to saying no internet
companies can build here in the states
in the 1990s so you don't think that
we're at risk of something like that
we'll never say never but I do think
standard box will prevail right I mean
politics is pretty dysfunctional these
days but I mean I think it to degree
they follow the money and the banking
Lobby is pretty powerful so I do think
that eventually they'll come up with
some logical policies in this space
awesome great to hear so I've been
full-time in the blockchain crypto space
since 2018 and basically during my
entire 10 years cbdcs have increasingly
become more of a talking point point so
I was watching one of the podcasts that
you you participated on in 2020 and you
kind of alluded to the recognition of
cbdc's from governments across the world
so what is your just general perspective
of like the wide scale adoption of cbbcs
and are we moving closer and closer to a
world where we're going to have multiple
types of blockchain based digital
currencies in addition to the already
digitized currencies that we see you
know I think that's a tough question I
think from a technology perspective as a
company it was great if everything was
on on some sort of Ledger right because
that made me a lot more clients as an
individual I'm not so Keen about uh you
know at least retail cbdc I mean this is
it strikes me the the logic behind it is
not so much it's more about control than
anything I think so I ideally hope that
is in the direction we go I think
hopefully the future is much more open
in terms of I think one of the visions
that I really bought into that
effectively everything become some sort
of uh form of value that can be
exchanged once it's tokenized so we need
to go through a kind of a dollar
settlement now because it's the most
transparent mechanism for exchanging
value but if eventually everything is on
chain and everything is tokenized then
everything has a value so you can just
train those assets directly right in the
same way we can trade Bitcoin versus
ethereum without going through dollars
basically right so it's hard to say I
mean there's obviously projects that the
FED looking at this there's projects and
other countries looking at that I I can
see the logic on a wholesale basis but
to a large degree the wholesale system
is already digitized it doesn't
necessarily need to be tokenized so I'm
not sure we're really solving a problem
with retail cbdc's but I do think
there's need for some sort of tokenized
uh settlement asset maybe stable coins
seem to be quite efficient at that we
just need to make sure we're coming up
with models where the where the assets
the investors are protected that you're
not uh just a general credit or some
fintech that basically is uh if things
go wrong you know those assets aren't
really backing the underlying token
which is obviously a question with some
of them yeah I appreciate the kind of
Illusion or the nod to the dystopian
future that the cbdcs can offer because
it does kind of seem like a there could
be a control element there but at the
same time digitizing taking the digital
dollar the digital fiat currency to the
next level also seems like it could have
some positive impact on society but not
necessarily on the individual which is
kind of a wicked problem I mean there's
a whole lot of concept of purpose-based
money you can see directly when you have
issues you've got a hurricane in New
Orleans and you need to get money to
people and you know the banking system's
down if you could just drop it into of
their wallets through the through the
mobile I mean that would be quite
powerful right so you can see they have
Solutions and having you know
individuals in in Bangladesh can have a
phone on their a wallet in their phone
they can build a digital you know a
financial identity and have some sort of
tokenized currency in there I mean
already tokenized dollars enable
everyone in the world to have let's say
an offshore bank account it's powerful
but you know I think you need to make
sure that the Privacy is built in and
it's real privacy it's not something
with the government as the back door
otherwise it means nothing yeah one of
the things that got me really excited
from a philosophical perspective about
cryptocurrencies Bitcoin you name it was
uh banking the unbanked and there's so
much of the world that prior to the
launch of Bitcoin and other
cryptocurrencies just were gate capped
outside of having a bank account so I'm
just curious to hear from your
perspective what has the globalization
of New Market entrants represented for
the institutions because we have just I
think it was something like a third of
the world was unbanked maybe 10 15 years
ago so now we have this wave of New
Market entrance you can participate in
global markets because they have a cell
phone and a wallet and a cryptocurrency
so now that we have this new wave of New
Market participants what's sort of the
effects that institutions are
recognizing are they accounting for
these new market entrants I do think
even the banks are thinking about this
concept of inclusivity basically I mean
one of the problems with their existing
technology stack is it's a very
expensive stock to manage basically and
you can you know we talked to one large
bank that I think just in in that one
area that they're working they've got 40
different sort of banking systems so
effectively we have a layer of spaghetti
and one of the objectives to move all
assets onto NASA classes or one of the
impacts is that every year you go at a
bank you go through a review of all your
accounts to see whether they're
profitable or not and affecting that
cost space means the hurdle is is quite
high and banks are always shedding
clients because they're no longer very
profitable so I think one of the one of
the reasons for the banks to look at
Reinventing their Tech stack moving all
assets on Ledger is effectively one if
you're externalizing The Ledger ledgers
are expensive to manage the bank there's
a whole industry internally about
reconciling what's the single source of
Truth in the bank because there is no
single source of truth then reconciling
that single source of truth that they
somehow come up with across all the
different platforms and reconcile that
with others in the industry so this
industry reconciliation this is a
something that happens on a daily basis
on a month-end basis on a quarter in
basis a urine base it's expensive the
whole infrastructure comes with a
serious running cost because of the way
it's just built layer upon layer over
years so if you can move you can rip The
Ledger out of a bank and put it on chain
and then have basically let's say over
time have Smart contracts to build
products and service and automate
services that intermediation the capital
cost the labor costs and the technology
cost running a bank will drop
dramatically and by definition they can
cover a much broader understanding
clients at a lower cost so you can go to
those markets where it's not economical
to give somebody a bank account in the
fiscal branch and send them you know
paper-based confirmations every month
instead they can just have a digital
wall on the phone and they can service
them efficiently I think that's a
reality that's a potentially a reality
where even the existing Financial Banks
want to go enables them to scale their
business and they will be able to scale
profitably which is the key point but of
course there's obviously some others
that have entered the space that have
built out you know we've seen
particularly in Africa there's been a
lot of you know m-pesa companies like
that that have started with things like
uh effectively trading you know Mobile
minutes and I think they're all moving
into the tokenized space this is
demonstrating this works and it'll be
embraced and it's kind of like going
from when you're building out the
Telecom skipping the copper going
straight to mobile a lot of places have
very immature banking systems that don't
work and they can effectively solve that
problem and you've seen that
unconsciously Philippines where the
government has embraced this technology
as basically transformational for their
not just the banks but for their
populace you know if you've got
thousands of islands there without
branches in many cases people relying on
7-Elevens and remittances I think we
work with one client there Union Bank in
Philippines which has done a lot of
innovation around creating a building
settlement networks on on ethereum for
example building up Wallace for their
their retail clients wholesale clients
effectively it becomes the new banking
rooms awesome yeah thanks I think the
the convoluted question was answered in
there
no it was a great answer and uh really
interesting to think of as well
something that was kind of mind-bending
for me was when I was looking into the
benefits that like the continent of
Africa could receive was simply that
Mobile minutes are a form of currency in
many countries like if you want to
participate in local markets you can
trade in minutes because they have value
people want to use them for their cell
phones people forget even the US I think
there's about five percent of people run
Banks I mean you can address issues at
home yeah totally so we've kind of
alluded to this in our conversation If
From my perspective if we're looking at
large-scale institutions it used to be
blockchain not Bitcoin and then the The
Narrative kind of focused to bitcoin
only and earlier you were talking about
EVMS are now sort of the topic du jour
of the day so what else are banks and
institutions and large-scale Enterprise
looking at are they looking Beyond defy
are they also looking at Dows are they
looking at nfts what are some other kind
of like large-scale crypto enabled sort
of tokenization practices are they
implementing sure I'd say the most
common use case is looking at security
so Securities and the payment space
that's one of the core businesses in in
finance enabling helping companies raise
money you know secondary markets for the
where there's equities or bonds those
markets work quite well but the issuance
process is is slow and cumbersome in
many countries and there's again it's a
bit of efficiency there and then
deficiency lowers lower financing costs
and potentially Spurs Innovation as a
result because funding gets cheaper so I
think there's a lot of focus there we do
see some companies very focused on the
payment space usually in firms like
JPMorgan JP Morgan coin pretty
revolutionary I mean they've got payment
rails in effect of every country and
they've built this what we used to call
a corporate coin a JP Morgan coin which
uh is like a layer too they've got
payment rails on the on the connected in
every country and you can effectively
instantaneously 24 7 365 move that
JPMorgan coin around as a kind of a
global settlement coin so that's a I
mean a very exciting use case that
they've been doing you know I think in
the what we've also seen Banks cover
corporates and obviously they respond to
corporate demand there's a lot of
interest in the corporate space around
nfts particularly from a loyalty
perspective you've seen a lot of luxury
brands in particular we announced the
deal just three weeks ago from one of
the one of the largest industrial groups
in turkey has a car company that's let's
say the Turkish equivalent of Tesla talk
and they've launched nft's side to the
cars and it's been a huge success I mean
that country is is Again David brace
crypto at a large degree it's a country
where Gold's always been sucked before
about uh gold markets and developing
economies I mean every Bank their trades
gold every individual holds gold the
liras had some tough runs at times so
they've embraced the crypto space and
nft spaces a very exciting one for them
that one that we've seen a lot more
corporate interest whether it's on
consumer brands or the luxury side
around the nft spaces and the banks are
responding to that as well building
capabilities and nfts so I think the
primary ones really are the payments and
securities from a banking perspective
but nft is definitely emerging this year
as well very interesting yeah my day job
is to cover the Neo blockchain Neo was
uh ethereum's number one competitor in
2017 and one of the largest audiences
outside of Western audiences that the
neo.org website has is actually from
Turkey so it's really interesting to
kind of see the the growth in popularity
of cryptocurrency currencies there
um so kind of transitioning into matako
and orchestration and a lot of the cool
products and services that you and your
team offer I did just kind of want to
enter the conversation on kind of on a
somber note FTX was kind of like the
golden exchange and there was a lot of
trust there and it was heralded as kind
of like the exchange to work with and
obviously we've seen some potentially
fraudulent actions on behalf of SBF so
my big question is is what has the
damage of reputation for
cryptocurrencies or for integrating
support for exchanges what are some of
the the blowbacks that you're seeing
from the FTX blow up with potential
clients as you go out and talk to them
well given mataku covers primarily Banks
you know those banks that are already
productive in this crypto space I've
actually seen a benefit from fgx in the
sense that there's been a flight to
quality let's call it basically a run
you know people that had assets as you
said it was unexpected FTX was up there
as one of the top you know binance and
FTX both deep and liquid and efficient
and kind of unbelievable it happened but
so as a result the trust element became
a big issue and I think what was thought
was those were companies with strong
balance sheets they were regulated and I
think you can look at some of the some
of the banks that were in this space
they saw a big info of assets and I
think they actually saw their AUM grow
despite the drop in asset classes was
that it was that dramatic basically
right so the value dropped but their AUM
was growing so I think that that's been
one of the benefits it's the wrong the
wrong reasons possibly but I think you
know what one of our views has always
been that uh you know we're going
through sort of Cycles in the market and
I think the last you know last 10 years
in this space has really been about
Innovation at all costs basically
innovating be agile come up the new
thing you know launch Terra D5 for
example don't worry so much about
security and compliance and uh you know
we built the same excesses that I said
we're describing earlier the excesses in
the banking system 2008 where there's
just too much excess enthusiasm and as a
result when things get tough you know
when the tide goes out as a
um Buffett Buffett thank you as Buffett
says you see he was swimming naked and
all the stamps that's exactly what we
saw basically right so I think the next
wave is really about some of those large
institutions moving into the space the
traditional banks that uh you know
manage all your other asset classes and
they will add this asset class as well
over time and you will probably go to
them to hold the asset and you know the
prosely be your own Banks I think very
promising but I think it's not about
always be your own back I think it's the
optionality of being your own bank you
can exit the financial system same way
you can decide to hold gold put it in
your basement or however you want to do
it ultimately if all assets are
tokenized it's too much responsibility
to carry all your assets around your
phone you drop it in the toilet and
everything's gone or you lose it or you
know most problems are not so much theft
as you just lose your keys or lose your
password and there's no went to Coop
look at recovery as you know so I think
ultimately the more assets get tokenized
the more by definition this Market will
centralize and trusted entities that's
slightly controversial from the the pure
crypto anarchistic view of the world but
I think it's a reality I mean even in
this space I don't trust myself to
manage all my assets as large firms
build capability they build technology I
think the idea is they're they're good
at managing security and they have you
know they have balance sheets to back
things up when things go wrong basically
so I think the trend we're seeing now is
these firms move in they will become the
market definers in this space they will
set standards things like settlement
will change we will no longer you know
send assets directly to an exchange and
have exposure to FDX who come up with
new clearing mechanisms for that that
are more consistent way traditional
exchanges do things so I think it's
really going through a cycle and the
Catalyst was really what it was kind of
the end of cycle of the FTX thing it was
the peak I do think we'll see a lot more
regulation a lot more professionalism in
this market now more governance more
security these will not be after
thoughts and they were for yeah before I
was in the crypto space I was in the
city planning space and one of the
perverse kind of things that really took
a while for me to to grok was the more
congestion your city has the better its
economy is so it's kind of negative
because you're dealing with all this car
congestion but that's a negative
externality of like a positive event
which sounds similar to FTX collapsing
and this flight to security and going to
the places where these entities have
proven over time that custody is
something that they're able to secure on
behalf of the people who use their
products and services secure and ensure
that there's segregation of roles I mean
it's remarkable how much power was was
centralized in SPF came in he sent the
money out there's there was ostensibly
back doors to a lot of things uh we'll
find out the truth of it but you know
too much was centralized and it's one of
the key things I mean most of the
failures here have been centralized
failure risks defy has been battle
tested I think through this process and
has come out showing so that technology
I think is still shown it's robust the
failures have been once again
centralized failures well I am curious
to hear what the blowback was from the
Terra collapse because
um and I got caught up in it myself and
it just seemed like this was like a
protocol failure versus FTX which was a
custodial failure so did you see kind of
like a loss in faith in the space from
your clients when Tara collapsed no just
because that was kind of the the far
Fringe it was like trading I don't know
if you're familiar with CDO Square back
in 2008 but uh it was taking like the
worst part of credit you know real
estate by credit
um and then taking punts on those so no
we didn't really really see that it was
more of a novelty because none of our
clients were involved in that you had to
be deep in the weeds to really be
involved there basically right yeah and
just to caveat when when I got wrecked I
kind of walked in wide-eyed knowing that
this might be uh an outcome and uh
unfortunately this is one of the times
when my negative projections was correct
who knows one of sbf's comments that it
was on one of the uh one of the podcasts
we talked about amms and some of it oh
it's all a Ponzi scheme of sorts
remember there was a little too much
truth-telling in that one basically
yes so kind of parlaying this whole
conversation into matako and some of the
the great things that you guys are
working on first of all what are the
verticals you've already alluded to this
as well but what are the verticals and
sectors that your clients come from
largely financial institutions that are
regulated that's been our core
proposition and we've really focused on
like the largest Nest space the tier One
banking institutions exchanges and
really providing them a foundational
technology so they can build a digital
asset offering and that really means
providing kind of the base layer around
managing private Keys ultimately you're
talking about assets that are tied to
private keys on a ledger of some sort so
it's really been an infrastructure that
has different security models um in the
sense that uh they're in custody there's
hardware-based security there's
multi-party Computing and we basically
provide both one of the few companies
that really is agnostic to underlying
underlying security model often this is
like a religious argument like NPC is is
the future Hardware is dead but the
reality is our clients particularly
large financial institutions have
different use cases and there's
different use cases for both so we we
provide both with kind of agnostic to
what type of Hardware so that's the base
layer and you know above that is really
about how do you build your use cases
and as I described earlier a simple
multi-sig or multi-approval you know
three of five sort of framework whatever
the underlying security is not really
enough for what a financial institution
because the financial institution is
really looking to put all their
processes you know this is risk
operational compliance and there could
be multiple steps they can be very
conditional those all need to be and
that secure and they need to be very
flexible in terms of how they're built
in and it's not just about what you're
doing on chain that needs security it's
basically off chain because you need to
hack the keys if you can hack the users
if you set up a user with authorizations
they shouldn't have everything else
could be secure and the assets are gone
we provide provide a framework that's
effectively like a state machine that
basically where you can put everything
all your process in it and have all this
driven framework around every workflow
so it means you can build a use case a
payment use case you can build a
tokenization use case you can build
basically any use case you want you can
Define all the workflows related to it
choose the type of custody model that
you want it's hot to air gap cold and PC
to Hardware work with sub custody as the
case may be so it's really the core
proposition is this Flex this is
Security First and the policy driven
framework I described it just enables
basically a lot of optionality to build
the Frameworks that work today and
enable the bank to scale to kind of
multi-jurisdictional global operation
that covers different client types
different use cases different regulatory
Frameworks and Implement that all into a
frame that it can be fully automated and
have conditional process to scale up
importantly it doesn't come saying you
have to use this type of Ledger you have
to use this tokenization engine yeah as
this Brennan it's built API first and
it's about evm's popular now there may
be third generation technology we plug
that in later on it's agnostic to Ledger
you want to work with C5 now in terms of
process you know exchanges fine but
equally you want to plug in defy and you
want to interact with D5 with on a
policy driven way understanding what's
behind that smart contract and have
governance of migraine policies around
all the the functions of the smart
contract we deliver that so it's really
a very flexible framework that's
designed for large institutions that
want to build a foundation in a real
scale in an open way and build their own
IP on top of this as well so it's the
foundation for the new let's say next
Generation banking system and when you
have these new clients coming to talk to
matako are they coming in knowing what
the difference between a hardware wallet
is an MPC do they have specific
questions is it is it a wide range of
understanding of the underlying
technology it's a tricky question I
think a superficial yes superficial
level yes they come in they know but I
think there's a lot of competitors space
kind of language gets watered down to
meaning very little to really understand
the difference of matako versus another
you need a proper due diligence and I
think that's what my talk is quite
strong we work you know some of the
large firms will do just on security
alone do like a 20 hour Deep dive and
that's where we typically shine and
where we went we didn't raise a billion
dollars and have a half of that in their
marketing budget so if it's just about
marketing Taco might not get chosen but
if there's actually a due diligence you
can differentiate and I think that's the
critical point where you can understand
there's no single point of failure it's
adaptable to multiple use cases it's
flexible and it's future proof and these
don't come through necessary marketing
because marketing everybody's got the
same thing to your point NPCs NPC and
everyone's got a policy engine
everyone's the highest level security
it's very hard to differentiate at The
Superficial level so matako is seemingly
quite successful I mean it's a five-year
olds company continuing to grow
continuing to grow clients a lot of
times in the crypto space you hear
marketing marketing marketing needs to
be done and it doesn't seem like that is
matako's solution so how do you guys
find that you onboard new clients
without these massive marketing budgets
but we do Market but we're very targeted
so as you you mentioned before off
offline I do have a podcast we bring on
some of the thought leaders in the space
to talk about the issues that we know
our clients are interested in we
organize you know events that are very
targeted towards let's say the banking
Community the infrastructure community
that serves Banks as well because
they're a number of our partners we're
not on billboards and we're not flying
helicopters you know with our logo on it
but we we do focus on our clients and
work closely with other clients we're a
technology company we we work with our
clients to understand the domain I mean
a lot of us at the company now have deep
domain experience coming from the
banking space coming from you know the
technology space but it's essential I
mean the real value is we understand the
client base we've built our solution for
banks it's evolved with banks given the
knowledge what we've grown so the pro
the platform keeps improving given the
as the the critical mass of client grows
so it's really provided us a significant
advantage to sell it to the new Banks
because we have such a deep experience
already with that segment so marketing
yeah we could be great if we had bigger
budgets it'd be fantastic makes
everything easier but I think we just
try to focus on doing things right and
focusing on things like security
compliance and that's the number one
priority for our clients and really then
working to identify their pain points
itself in those and for those listening
the podcast that Sheamus is talking
about is called matako talks it's a
really great insight into the Banking
and Financial types of clients that
matako works with and so if you're a DJ
and defy Dao nft person it's a really
awesome perspective to kind of listen to
and dig in and hear a brand new
different way that folks are thinking
about the space so running very short on
time what are the next steps from a taco
what are you excited about and what's
the best way that you people can keep up
to date with you and what's going on
with matako I mean I think we're despite
the the headlines we're growing so for
us it's really about uh continued growth
in this space banking space as I said
fortunately we've been insulated from uh
our clients are still around they're not
all the fintech natives that have I
think it's been very tough It's been
we've seen in the last few weeks 20 30
announcements of layoffs um
announcements of layoffs of 23 of
company staff so I think we've been very
fortunate we continue to grow in a
conservative way but uh we continue to
grow delivery capabilities client
support capabilities and our sales
capabilities and partnership
capabilities so for us it's really about
slow and steady but continued strength
we're excited about the way the banks
are looking at this space that they're
embracing underlying technology as
transformation
so we're quite positive of the future so
for us love it if more people thank you
for the plug from a taco talks it's a
great way uh you can sign up and you'll
get regular updates of those speakers
and otherwise uh come to the website and
uh there's a lot of information there
about the company awesome well Sheamus
thank you so much for coming on to the
smart economy podcast it was really
refreshing to be able to dig into your
side of of the space that we're in and a
part of the space that can feel foreign
to those who aren't in the traditional
finance and banking side so um thank you
so much for just sharing your insights
and information it was a really fun chat
Dylan it's been great to be here thank
you very much for the uh the discussion
and having me on awesome cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation it was packed with insights
into the blockchain and crypto space
from someone who works really closely
with institutions and Banks and it's
really exciting to hear that banks are
already experimenting with various
blockchain Technologies it was also a
bit surprising to hear that from
Sheamus's perspective institutions
weren't phased by either the FTX
custodial exchange collapse or the Terra
protocol failure in 2022 and it was
really refreshing to hear a positive
spin on recent conversations surrounding
U.S regulations around cryptocurrencies
and that Sheamus believes the banking
sector will Lobby for regulations that
are friendlier for business on that note
I want to thank you so much for taking
the time to listen to the smart economy
podcast if you liked what you heard and
want to support the show please keep Neo
news today in mind when voting for your
Neo Council representative as part of
Neo's governance process we appreciate
you and look forward to catching you
next time
[Music]